# ANN Regression model to predict the electrical energy output of a Combined Cycle Power Plant

# Introduction

The objective is to create a data model that predicts the net hourly electrical energy output (EP) of the plant using available hourly average ambient variables.

This is a logistic regression model using artificial neural networks to identify correlations between the following 4 independent variables and the Net hourly electrical energy output.

    Temperature
    Ambient Pressure
    Relative Humidity
    Exhaust Vacuum

**Data Set Information:**

Dataset was obtained from https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Combined+Cycle+Power+Plant

The dataset contains 9568 data points collected from a Combined Cycle Power Plant over 6 years (2006-2011), when the power plant was set to work with full load. Features consist of hourly average ambient variables Temperature (T), Ambient Pressure (AP), Relative Humidity (RH) and Exhaust Vacuum (V) to predict the net hourly electrical energy output (EP) of the plant.
A combined cycle power plant (CCPP) is composed of gas turbines (GT), steam turbines (ST) and heat recovery steam generators. In a CCPP, the electricity is generated by gas and steam turbines, which are combined in one cycle, and is transferred from one turbine to another. While the Vacuum is colected from and has effect on the Steam Turbine, the other three of the ambient variables effect the GT performance.


**Attribute Information:**

Features consist of hourly average ambient variables
- Temperature (T) in the range 1.81°C and 37.11°C,
- Ambient Pressure (AP) in the range 992.89-1033.30 milibar,
- Relative Humidity (RH) in the range 25.56% to 100.16%
- Exhaust Vacuum (V) in teh range 25.36-81.56 cm Hg
- Net hourly electrical energy output (EP) 420.26-495.76 MW

The averages are taken from various sensors located around the plant that record the ambient variables every second. The variables are given without normalization.

# Overview

**Part 1: Data Preprocessing**

1. Importing the dataset

*Imported the pandas library to read the dataset. The given dataset is multivariate defined over 4 different attributes.*

2. Splitting the dataset into a training set and test set

*The dataset was splitted using the test_train_split function imported from model_selection.*

*Out of Approx. 9600 instances, 20% were splitted into test set and remaining 80% were kept to train the dataset called as X_train, y_train, X_test, y_test.*

**Part 2: Training**

1. Building the Artificial Neural Network

*Initialized and added 2 hidden layers and 1 output layer to the network.*

2. Training the Artificial Neural Network

*Compiled the network with Mean Squared Error loss function and trained it for 100 epochs.*

**Part 3: Predicting the results and acquiring the output**

1. Used the trained model to predict the results on the test set.

2. Obtain the net hourly electrical energy output data.

*An array of predicted net hourly electrical energy output values is obtained.*
